
■ HYRes IV (Pronunciation [haires aivi:]) 

A software tool designed for use in accurately gauging the resolution of a digital camera using resolution charts compliant with ISO 12233.

[Creator] Hideaki Yoshida (belongs to OM Digital Solutions Corporation)
[Free provider] OM Digital Solutions Corporation
[Distribution window] CIPA (Camera & Imaging Products Association)


■ Note (Mandatory to read)

[1] Anyone using this software is regarded as making the pledge described below. 
Person not accepting this is prohibited to use. (Confirmation of this pledge will be done also at the first time of starting up this software.)
------------------------------------------------------
I pledge the following matters where using the resolution measurement software HYRes IV (hereinafter referred to as this Software).

1) All rights concerning this Software, including its copyrights, shall remain vested in OM Digital Solutions Corporation (hereinafter referred to as "OMDS"), to which the creator of this Software (hereinafter referred to as the "Creator") belongs, and except for as expressly granted under this pledge, no license or rights, in whole or in part, is granted, assigned or transferred to me by receiving and using this Software and its manual.
2) To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, OMDS, Camera & Imaging Products Association (hereinafter referred to as "CIPA") and the Creator provide this Software AS IS AND WITH ALL FAULTS, and hereby disclaim all warranties and conditions, either express, implied or statutory, including, but not limited to, non-infringement of third party intellectual property rights, and its fitness for a particular purpose.
3) OMDS, CIPA, and the Creator shall not be liable for any claims or damages whatsoever due to any problems or damages, direct or indirect, arising from the use of this Software.
4) No questions pertaining to technical and other aspects of this Software, including its specifications, shall be directed to OMDS, the CIPA, or the Creator.
5) This Software shall be used solely for its intended usage and shall not be used, either in whole or in part, for any other usage such as sales.
*Said "intended usage" is to measure resolution properly and justifiably and to utilize its measurement results, also may include announcing the measured values if they are objective ones obtained properly and justifiably.
Also, said "other usage" is any of all usages other than the intended usage. Therefore for instance, it shall also be prohibited to use to sell this Software as a product (either as a single product or as a part of other products) or to announce or use for promotion the improper measurement results caused by making improper resolution measurements.
6) I shall not alter, modify or reproduce this Software.
7) I shall not make this Software, in whole or in part, combine with other softwares or incorporate into other softwares.
8) I shall not reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, or print out this Software, in whole or in part.
9) I shall not create any derivatives from the Software. I shall not transfer, sell or lease this software and/or its derivatives.
10) I shall not modify, remove or delete any copyright notices, warnings, and other kind of information displayed in this Software and /or its manual.
11) This pledge shall be governed by the laws of Japan, and in respect of any dispute which may arise hereunder, I consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of Tokyo District Court.
------------------------------------------------------

[2] The originality (the status as its inventor and developer) of this software belongs to the creator, and all intellectual property rights related to this software are the property of OM Digital Solutions Corporation to which the creator belongs.

[3] This software contains no help feature. Use it by reading the explanations of "3. Flow of the measurement" and "4. Method of operation" (and after also) in the manual.

[4] This software displays in Japanese on a Japanese-language operating system otherwise in English on any other language operating system. But in case of English display mode there can be appears some garbled texts on some operation windows and others.

■ How to install

1) HYRes IV operates under the environment of Windows where Microsoft.NET Framework 4 is installed. In other words, it supports to Windows 8 and after generally, and even if NET Framework 4 is not installed it will be available by obtaining that from Microsoft download center in case of Windows XP SP3 or after. (It is downloadable with no charge in December 2020 at the present from the next URL.)
https://www.microsoft.com/en-US/download/details.aspx?id=17851
 However in any case no guarantees whatsoever are given on its operation.

2) When you extract the zip file for distribution, the folder [HYResIV 1.00] will appear. The contents of this folder are four files and three folders. The two of the files are <Readme ( ).txt> in Japanese and English, and the others are two manuals <HYResIV Manual( ).pdf> in the same way. And one of the folders is [sample images] as its name indicated. 
Each of the other folders [x86] and [x64] is an execution program (the contents are both files <HYResIV.exe>, <HYResMain.dll> and subfolders [ja-JP]), and the one that matches the system architecture (PC processor) of the usage environment is to be used. You can delete the unused folder.

3) No special installation operation is required, put the folder of the execution program to be used in an appropriate place, and open the execution file <HYResIV.exe> to start it. It is convenient to create a shortcut to the execution file and put it on the desktop or other.

■ How to use

See the English manual <HYResIV Manual(en).pdf>.


[2021-1-1, Written by the creator: HIDEAKI YOSHIDA](1.00)

